README.md, before:

# Collection or CI tests for database packages @ Fedora

This repository includes various tests that will be run for verifying database packages in Fedora.

Dependencies for these tests are the following fedora packages: `koji` `createrepo` `git` `wget` `vim`

To run all tests for a package `mariadb` on Fedora, run the `./run.sh` with name(s) of the package:
```
./run.sh mariadb
```
or run `run.sh` script in particular package directory:
```
cd packages/mariadb
./run.sh
```

To run all tests for all packages, run the same command without arguments:
```
./run.sh
```

To run only particular test (e.g. install validation in -updates-candidate repository) for package `mariadb` on Fedora, go to the particular directory and run:
```
cd packages/mariadb/install
./run.sh
```

To download a specific NVR from koji and run tests against it, run:
```
./run-nvr.sh <package> <nvr>
```
For example:
```
./run-nvr.sh mariadb mariadb-10.1.17-1.fc25
```

##Structure of tests
```
    ├── run.sh      -- main entrypoint to run the tests
    ├── run-nvr.sh  -- main entrypoint to run the tests for a specific NVR from koji
    ├── common      -- contains files common for all tests
    ├── packages -- contains tests for all packages
        │
        ├── mariadb             -- contains tests for the mariadb package
        │   ├── enabled_tests   -- sorted list of enabled tests for mariadb package
        │   ├── run.sh          -- runs all tests listed in enabled_tests file
        │   ├── basic-usage     -- a test for checking basic usage of a package
        │   │       ├── run.sh      -- the main script of the test
        │   │       ├── err         -- expected stderr (oprional)
        │   │       ├── out         -- expected stdout (optional)
        │   │       └── retcode     -- expected return code (optional)
        │   └── install         -- a test for installation of the package
        │           └── run.sh      -- the main script of the test
```

When "run.sh" is run, it compares stdout, stderr and return code with valuse specified in
the test directory. Eg.

    packages/mariadb/tests/check-version/out

When no expected stdout or stderr defined, it compares just return code.
When no return code is specified, the test is succesfull when it returns 0.

###Results
Simple results (passed/failed) are written to stdout. Acctual results (stdout, 
stderr and return code) can be faund in the directory under /tmp, that is printed
to the stdout:

```
Running tests for rh-python34-rh ...
[FAILED]	install
[FAILED]	check-version
[PASSED]	uninstall

1 tests passed, 2 tests failed.

Failed tests:
	  install check-version uninstall
Logs are stored in /tmp/db-results-s6Fhun
NOT ALL TESTS PASSED SUCCESSFULLY
```

Commit message:

Add warning about root permissions needed for runnint tests.

README.md, after:

# Collection or CI tests for database packages @ Fedora

This repository includes various tests that will be run for verifying database packages in Fedora.

**Warning: All scripts in this repo are expected to be run as root user, since they usually install packages and do other things where root permissions are expected. That said, do not run anything in this repo on a machine you care about, it might potentially break your system. All tests are considered potentially destructive.**

Dependencies for these tests are the following fedora packages: `koji` `createrepo` `git` `wget` `vim`

To run all tests for a package `mariadb` on Fedora, run the `./run.sh` with name(s) of the package:
```
./run.sh mariadb
```
or run `run.sh` script in particular package directory:
```
cd packages/mariadb
./run.sh
```

To run all tests for all packages, run the same command without arguments:
```
./run.sh
```

To run only particular test (e.g. install validation in -updates-candidate repository) for package `mariadb` on Fedora, go to the particular directory and run:
```
cd packages/mariadb/install
./run.sh
```

To download a specific NVR from koji and run tests against it, run:
```
./run-nvr.sh <package> <nvr>
```
For example:
```
./run-nvr.sh mariadb mariadb-10.1.17-1.fc25
```

##Structure of tests
```
    ├── run.sh      -- main entrypoint to run the tests
    ├── run-nvr.sh  -- main entrypoint to run the tests for a specific NVR from koji
    ├── common      -- contains files common for all tests
    ├── packages -- contains tests for all packages
        │
        ├── mariadb             -- contains tests for the mariadb package
        │   ├── enabled_tests   -- sorted list of enabled tests for mariadb package
        │   ├── run.sh          -- runs all tests listed in enabled_tests file
        │   ├── basic-usage     -- a test for checking basic usage of a package
        │   │       ├── run.sh      -- the main script of the test
        │   │       ├── err         -- expected stderr (oprional)
        │   │       ├── out         -- expected stdout (optional)
        │   │       └── retcode     -- expected return code (optional)
        │   └── install         -- a test for installation of the package
        │           └── run.sh      -- the main script of the test
```

When "run.sh" is run, it compares stdout, stderr and return code with valuse specified in
the test directory. Eg.

    packages/mariadb/tests/check-version/out

When no expected stdout or stderr defined, it compares just return code.
When no return code is specified, the test is succesfull when it returns 0.

###Results
Simple results (passed/failed) are written to stdout. Acctual results (stdout, 
stderr and return code) can be faund in the directory under /tmp, that is printed
to the stdout:

```
Running tests for rh-python34-rh ...
[FAILED]	install
[FAILED]	check-version
[PASSED]	uninstall

1 tests passed, 2 tests failed.

Failed tests:
	  install check-version uninstall
Logs are stored in /tmp/db-results-s6Fhun
NOT ALL TESTS PASSED SUCCESSFULLY
```
